1. What’s your proudest achievement? It can be a personal project or something you’ve worked on professionally. Just a short paragraph is fine, but I’d love to know why you’re proud of it.

I'm proudest of one of my long-term projects that I'm still working on: language learning! Ten years ago, despite growing up in Quebec, I could speak only the most broken phrases. Motivated by a desire to be able to connect with more people in my community and around the world, I signed up for a beginner's class at a local language school. Since then, I've spent untold hours struggling through classes and tutoring. Five years ago a tutor asked me to set a more concrete goal, and I decided that I wanted my level to be good enough to teach in French. I moved to Montreal to study in a francophone university for my Masters degree, and have indeed realized that goal as a lab coordinator and teaching assistant. While I still have a lot to learn, I'm proud of the progress that I've made. My life has been enriched by the relationships and experiences that I've been able to experience through my efforts to learn another language.

2. What's a personal project you're currently working on? This could be a coding side project, hobby, or otherwise real world project you're working on.

My biggest current project is my thesis about my Masters research. Great research is of little worth without a compelling presentation, so much of the project at this phase is in crafting the narrative to highlight the relevance of my work. I have three professors supervising the project, so my communication with them needs to be responsive and understanding in order to make sure everybody feels that they're on-board and their contributions are appreciated. We're also working on a tight timeline (first draft due this weekend) -- my planning and project management has been key to making sure that the deliverable is ready on-time. It's been a good experience creating the experimental designs, tooling, and statistical work for this project and I'm looking forward to finishing the final product. A personal project I'd like to make when I'm done: a visual calculator that converts dollars to an equivalent volume of doughnuts. I'm picturing a single-page application that will require me to look into animation with canvas elements.


3. Tell us about a technical book or article you read recently, why you liked it, and why we should read it.

In 2019, I switched the OS on my desktop (macOS) and server (Ubuntu) to FreeBSD. Reporting and fixing occasional bugs and following the mailing lists, I wanted to be able to contribute more easily to development. So, earlier this year I picked up a copy of Kernighan and Ritchie's book The C Programming Language. What appealed to me first was the narrative style; the authors write a coherent story in prose and code without redundancy. I also came to appreciate the simplicity of the language, and also its flexibility and power -- I was impressed that the handful of data types and control tools are all that are used to create the entire standard library and (most of) the compiler! Learning about the intricacies of memory management and addressing has also been a good experience. Other than for learning C, a great reason to read the book is for its historical value. It's difficult to think of other computing books from the '70s that have had and continue to have such an impact. As to my original goal: while I still haven't implemented my user-space kernel driver to emulate a webcam in software (v4l2 for FreeBSD), I have been able to submit a few patches, and I've gained a newfound appreciation for the work of Unix pioneers and modern code built on their foundation.


4. Tell us about one of your favorite products (physical or software) and one specific aspect that makes it truly great.

My favourite product is my old 1970s road bike. While it allows me to travel easily around my city on a daily basis, I've also been able to go on short tours and enjoy seeing new places and being outdoors. While it's great for utility, one of its best features is that it is truly an understandable system. I've taken it apart many times to the most basic components, and each one of these is itself easy to take apart and understand. Because it's so easy to work with, I've been able to swap out and improve many pieces, and it's been almost as fun to improve as it is to ride!